Here are some of the contenders for the post of Sebi chief

Atanu Chakraborty, Former Secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs, has also emerged as other runner to take over as chairman. He retired in April. A 1985-batch IAS officer of the Gujarat cadre, Chakraborty has also worked as Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) secretary. Before becoming DIPAM secretary, Chakraborty was director general of hydrocarbons (DGH) in the petroleum ministry. Chakraborty had earlier served as director and joint secretary in the finance ministry.

Buch will be the first woman to head Sebi if she is selected. She was also the first woman WTM at the market regulator, which she joined in March 2017. Buch started her career at ICICI Bank and went on to become managing director and chief executive of ICICI Securities in February 2009. In 2011, she joined Greater Pacific Capital in Singapore. Before her stint at Sebi, she worked at the New Development Bank in Shanghai.

Dear Reader,

Business Standard has always strived hard to provide up-to-date information and commentary on developments that are of interest to you and have wider political and economic implications for the country and the world. Your encouragement and constant feedback on how to improve our offering have only made our resolve and commitment to these ideals stronger. Even during these difficult times arising out of Covid-19, we continue to remain committed to keeping you informed and updated with credible news, authoritative views and incisive commentary on topical issues of relevance.

We, however, have a request.



As we battle the economic impact of the pandemic, we need your support even more, so that we can continue to offer you more quality content. Our subscription model has seen an encouraging response from many of you, who have subscribed to our online content. More subscription to our online content can only help us achieve the goals of offering you even better and more relevant content. We believe in free, fair and credible journalism. Your support through more subscriptions can help us practise the journalism to which we are committed.



Support quality journalism and subscribe to Business Standard.



Digital Editor